---
title: 'GitHub Copilot Review'
description: 'GitHub CoPilot has been making waves in the coding community since its release. As an AI-powered coding assistant, it has the potential to significantly speed up the coding process and reduce boilerplate code.'
pubDatetime: 2022-03-01T02:05:51Z
author: Tim Bouma
postSlug: github-copilot
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
   - TypeScript
   - Astro
ogImage: ''
---

GitHub CoPilot has been making waves in the coding community since its release. As an AI-powered coding assistant, it has the potential to significantly speed up the coding process and reduce boilerplate code. However, after using it for five months, it's important to note that while it can be useful, it should not be relied upon to write all of the necessary code for a project. In this blog post, we'll explore some of the best practices for using CoPilot and some tips to get the most out of this powerful tool.

**Don’t use comment driven development using CoPilot.**

It's important to note that comment-driven development using CoPilot should be avoided. While it may be tempting to rely on CoPilot to generate your code based on comments, this approach can lead to code that is inefficient and ineffective. Instead, it's recommended to start writing the code yourself and use CoPilot only for assistance in completing or optimizing the code.

**Never let CoPilot write your whole functions. Start writing the function and let CoPilot do a bit of completion**.

Never let CoPilot write your whole functions. While it can be tempting to let CoPilot generate an entire function for you, it's important to strike a balance between relying on the tool and writing the code yourself. One approach is to start writing the function on your own and then use CoPilot to help complete it. This can not only help you become a better coder but also give you a deeper understanding of the code you're writing.

When using CoPilot to generate boilerplate code, it's important to define what you want before using it. By clearly outlining the requirements of your project, you can avoid generating unnecessary code and focus on the specific functionality you need. Additionally, making your code types as explicit as possible can help CoPilot suggest more accurate code completions, which can help avoid errors and ensure that the code generated is efficient and effective.

**Should you use CoPilot?**

It's also important to consider whether or not you should use CoPilot. As a junior developer, it's not recommended to rely solely on CoPilot to write your code. However, as a senior developer, CoPilot can be a useful tool to save time and reduce boilerplate code. It's important to use CoPilot ethically and responsibly, ensuring that you have the necessary rights and licenses to use the code it produces.

**Conclusion**

In conclusion, using CoPilot to generate boilerplate code can be a powerful tool for developers. However, it's important to remember that it should not be the sole source of code in your projects. Never rely solely on CoPilot to write your code for you. Instead, use it as a tool to help you write code more efficiently and accurately. Always review the code generated by CoPilot to ensure it is correct and meets your project's requirements. With these best practices in mind, you can get the most out of this powerful tool and become a more effective and efficient coder.
